# Bland Altman Plots

Construct and plot a Bland Altman plot in ggplot2.

## Usage

``` r
qblandaltman(x, alpha = getOption("qwraps2_alpha", 0.05), generate_data = TRUE)

qblandaltman_build_data_frame(x, alpha = getOption("qwraps2_alpha", 0.05))
```

## Arguments

- x:

  a `data.frame` with two columns, or an object that can be coerced to a
  data frame. If a `data.frame` with more than two columns is used only
  the first two columns will be used.

- alpha:

  (Defaults to 0.05) place (1 - alpha)\*100 place on the plot.

- generate_data:

  logical, defaults to TRUE. If TRUE, then the call to
  `qblandaltman_build_data_frame` is done automatically for you. If
  FALSE, then you should explicitly call `qblandaltman_build_data_frame`
  before calling `qblandaltman`.

## Value

a ggplot. Minimal aesthetics have been used so that the user may modify
the graphic as desired with ease.

## Details

Providing a `data.frame` with two columns, the function returns a ggplot
version of a Bland Altman plot with the specified confidence intervals.

Two ways to call the plotting function. If you submit a `data.frame`
`qblandaltman` then the data needed to produce the Bland Altman plot is
automatically generated by a call to `qblandaltman_build_data_frame`.
Alternatively, you may call `qblandaltman_build_data_frame` directly and
then call `qblandaltman`. This might be helpful if you are putting
multiple Bland Altman plots together into one ggplot object. See
Examples.

More details and examples for graphics within qwraps2 are in the
vignette(“qwraps2-graphics”, package = “qwraps2”)

## References

Altman, Douglas G., and J. Martin Bland. "Measurement in medicine: the
analysis of method comparison studies." The statistician (1983):
307-317.

Bland, J. Martin, and Douglas G Altman. "Statistical methods for
assessing agreement between two methods of clinical measurement." The
lancet 327, no. 8476 (1986): 307-310.

## Examples

``` r

data(pefr)
pefr_m1 <-
  cbind("Large" = pefr[pefr$measurement == 1 & pefr$meter == "Wright peak flow meter", "pefr"],
        "Mini"  = pefr[pefr$measurement == 1 & pefr$meter == "Mini Wright peak flow meter", "pefr"])

# The Bland Altman plot plots the average value on the x-axis and the
# difference in the measurements on the y-axis:
qblandaltman(pefr_m1) +
  ggplot2::xlim(0, 800) +
  ggplot2::ylim(-100, 100) +
  ggplot2::xlab("Average of two meters") +
  ggplot2::ylab("Difference in the measurements")

```
